Well, we eagerly look forward to the fulfillment of 1st Thessalonians, chapter 5, verse 3,
don't we?
Just before Jehovah's Day begins, the nations will say,
peace and security, and then sudden destruction will come upon the wicked.
This morning, let's remind ourselves about some of the key elements of this prophecy
and its significance for us.
Please turn with me in your Bibles to 1st Thessalonians, chapter 5.
This prophecy was written by the Apostle Paul to the Christians in Thessalonica, around
50 CE, and let's first notice the attitude of these Christians, as mentioned there in
verse 1.
1st Thessalonians 5-1, now as for the times and the seasons, brothers, you need nothing
to be written to you.
The zeal of these Christians was exemplary.
It was an example to other Christians in the 1st century, and it's a good example for
us today.
We can imitate the Thessalonian Christians by remaining alert to the times in which we're
living, remaining aware of God's timetable and not being distracted.
Now why is that so important?
Notice verse 2.
For you yourselves know very well that Jehovah's Day is coming exactly as a thief in the
night.
Jehovah's Day refers to the period that will start with the destruction of false religion
and culminate in the war of Armageddon, like a thief in the night.
In other words, unforeseen destruction will strike when least expected.
Even true Christians who are in expectation may be surprised by its sudden start, but
we won't be caught off guard.
Why is that?
Well, because as true Christians, we keep in expectation, just as our comments for
today mention, on the other hand, the world will experience much more than just a surprise.
Notice our prophecy here in verse 3.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction is to
be instantly on them, just like birth pains on a pregnant woman, and they will buy no
means escape.
Now the thought of humans achieving peace or wanting to achieve that peace, that isn't
anything new.
For example, what happened after the two world wars?
The nations wanted peace.
After World War I, the League of Nations was formed in the hope of bringing peace.
After World War II, the United Nations became a popular hope of bringing peace to mankind.
Government and religious leaders looked to those agencies to bring about peaceful conditions.
Many of us may remember back in 1986, the United Nations declaring the International Year
of Peace and Government and religious leaders joining the head of the Catholic Church to
offer prayers for peace.
But neither that proclamation of peace and security nor others like it have been the fulfillment
of 1st Estilonians 5.3.
Why not?
Well, for one thing, the foretold sudden destruction hasn't occurred yet.
Also, the fulfillment has to be something striking enough to justify its being recorded
as a specific prophecy inspired by Jehovah.
The peace and security proclamation must be an exceptional development, different from
the many peace efforts that have been made up until that time.
But no matter what form the proclamation takes or how convincing it may sound, it will
only be a veneer.
The world will still be under the control of Satan.
And when you think about it, proclamations of peace won't make any real changes in people.
Those proclamations can't make people love one another.
They can't stop crime.
They can't eliminate disease and death.
Things that are needed to bring about true peace and security.
The proclamation of peace and security won't mean that the decay of this old world has
been reversed.
Timothy 313 says that wicked men and imposter will advance from what?
Bad to better?
No.
Bad to worse.
Certainly no improvement foretold there.
Sadly many in the world will be deceived when they hear peace and security.
Destruction will strike when least expected, when their attention is on their hope for peace
and security.
But Jehovah's servants won't be deceived.
Do you remember this image on our screens?
It's in the October 2019 watchtower, and our picture description helped us to see what's
happening.
It states, patrons at a coffee shop react to breaking news on television about a proclamation
of peace and security.
But we focus on the middle of that image, and what's happening there?
Description continues, a witness couple taking a break from field service are not fooled
by this report.
We won't be fooled because we listen when God speaks.
We listen when God speaks.
And what does God tell us?
Psalm 4 verse 8, King David under inspiration wrote,
I will lie down and sleep in peace for you alone, O Jehovah.
Make me dwell in security.
So true peace and security are only from Jehovah.
Any declaration of peace and security expressed outside the context of Jehovah's Kingdom
arrangement is counterfeit.
It's as worthless as counterfeit money.
That type of peace can't achieve anything of lasting value.
Well, how do we benefit from understanding the significance of this prophecy?
Please notice verse 4, but you, brothers, you are not in darkness so that the day should
overtake you as it would themes.
Unlike people in general, we discern where current events are heading.
Jehovah doesn't keep us in the dark regarding these significant events.
Actually, he dignifies us by kindly giving us advanced knowledge in the form of a general
outline of events that are going to occur in the future.
Would we expect anything less from our loving father?
I thought this was nicely highlighted in a quote in the Awake magazine some years ago.
A branch received a letter from a 77-year-old Catholic monk who explained this.
I do not agree with all your beliefs, but what I read today in the watchtower makes
me admit that you have your finger on the pulse of time.
You courageously and legitimately explain Paul's words at 1 Thessalonians 5-3.
And I'll notice what else he states.
No where in our church do I find such explanations.
A person cannot dispute the workings of Holy Spirit upon Jehovah's Witnesses.
Jehovah dignifies us by kindly granting us advanced knowledge.
Now since we're not in darkness regarding future events, as mentioned there in verse
4, what more is required of us?
What's required of you and me?
Notice verses 6 and 8.
So then, let us not sleep on as the rest do, but let us stay awake and keep our senses.
Verse 8.
But as for us who belong to the day, let us keep our senses and put on the breastplate
of faith and love and the hope of salvation as a helmet.
Therein verse 6, and speaking of us, Paul was obviously referring to genuine Christians
who are active and responsive to Jehovah's direction spiritually awake to God's purpose.
The rest mentioned here would be persons perhaps professed Christians who are spiritually
asleep and unconcerned about the coming destruction.
Verse 8.
Likens faithful servants of God to well-trained soldiers who are attentive, who have
on their protective armor, and who are ready to obey any command given by their leader.
See we're not like unprepared troops sleeping in the barracks during a time of danger and
urgency.
And even though we don't know just when the proclamation of peace and security will
be made, that doesn't lessen the need for alertness today, does it?
In fact, it greatly increases and heightens the need for all of us to be awake, watchful,
and ready.
Are not knowing the exact time requires that we be ready all the time?
Well, what if we consider?
We can imitate the Thessalonian Christians by remaining alert to the times in which we're
living, remaining aware of God's timetable and not being distracted.
No matter what form the proclamation of peace and security takes or how convincing it may
sound, it will only be of a near.
We won't be fooled because we listen when God speaks.
And even though we don't know when the proclamation will be made, we stay alert, not knowing
greatly increases and heightens the need to be spiritually awake.
May we all remain watchful and ready as the proclamation of peace and security draws